# Healthy vs. Injured Hamstrings 

Hamstring injuries are very common in athletes, making the detection of injury patterns very important. The hope would be to understand what metrics and tests can be used so that when an athlete's numbers are off, the strength staff is able to adjust an athlete’s needs before they get detrimental to their health. However, injury is very hard to quantify. There is a lot of context needed to understand the scope of how an athlete gets injured. Gender, handedness, sport, and training load are just a couple of things to be considered when thinking about how and when an athlete would get injured. The context surrounding the injured athletes is very limited in the dataset provided. The time between the tests taken and when the injury occurs is one of the main issues. The reason is that these athletes could have taken these tests when they weren’t classified as injured yet, and it is hard to say when that would occur based on these parameters.

This project was based on a presentation from Michael Szemborski, Assistant Athletics Director, Strength and Conditioning at the University of Notre Dame with a goal to present findings on hamstring related injuries or patterns.

### Summary 

Since the data limitations restricted our scope of the injured athletes, we decided to pivot to the healthy athletes. These athletes are clearly doing something well to maintain the health of their hamstrings. So, we wanted to see the patterns of these athletes and provide more of a gold standard for tests to look at and target numbers on these tests. We created a 2-cluster model from just the healthy athletes and it provided one cluster that had superior test results (group 1). We noticed that it was really the iso-metric bridge assessment and the nord bord assessment that deemed to put these athletes on top. Top speed seemed to help the athletes maintain health, while flexibility measures (dorsiflexion and seated reach assessment) and depression severity screening did not seem to be of much importance. We would recommend that going forward, the target numbers of cluster 1 for these athletes can be a baseline target for other athletes in an attempt to keep them playing their respective sports.

We want to mention that we do not think these other metrics are not helpful. Rather, we would propose a more holistic approach to be able to use these metrics most efficiently. Having more routine checks of the depression severity questionnaire and flexibility measures are optimal uses of these metrics. Speed should be worked on in the sport, or some additional conditioning training should be added if there seems to be a huge deficit. Most importantly, the nord bord and iso-metric bridge assessments should be utilized as often as possible (ideally once a week) to show week-to-week disparities on an athlete. This would be especially important in a season as the workload of the athlete will increase fatigue.  


